# RandomNumberGenerator Class

Provides methods for generating random data.

    public abstract class RandomNumberGenerator


## [TOC] Summary


## Static Properties


### Default

Gets the default [[RandomNumberGenerator|RandomNumberGenerator Class]] instance.

    public static RandomNumberGenerator Default { get; }

#### Property Value

An instance of the [[RandomNumberGenerator|RandomNumberGenerator Class]] class.

#### Remarks

The default [[RandomNumberGenerator|RandomNumberGenerator Class]] instance
returns cryptographically random bytes generated by the operating system. On
Windows systems, the `RtlGenRandom` function is used. On recent Linux kernels,
the `getrandom` system call is used. On other Unices, the `/dev/urandom` device
is used.


## Methods


### GenerateBytes(int)

Generates a cryptographically strong random sequence of values and returns it as
an array of bytes.

    public byte[] GenerateBytes(
        int count)

#### Parameters

count
: The number of bytes to generate.

#### Return Value

An array of bytes that contains the generated values.

#### Exceptions

ArgumentOutOfRangeException
: `count` is less than 0.


### GenerateBytes(Span<byte>)

Fills the specified span of bytes with a cryptographically strong random
sequence of values.

    public void GenerateBytes(
        Span<byte> bytes)

#### Parameters

bytes
: The span to fill with random values.


### GenerateKey(Algorithm, KeyExportPolicies)

Generates a new cryptographic key for the specified algorithm.

    public Key GenerateKey(
        Algorithm algorithm,
        KeyExportPolicies exportPolicy = KeyExportPolicies.None)

#### Parameters

algorithm
: The algorithm for the key.

exportPolicy
: A bitwise combination of [[KeyExportPolicies|KeyExportPolicies Enum]] values
    that specifies the export policy for the generated key.

#### Return Value

A new instance of the [[Key|Key Class]] class that represents the new key.

#### Exceptions

ArgumentNullException
: `algorithm` is `null`.

NotSupportedException
: The specified algorithm does not use keys.


## Thread Safety

All members of this type are thread safe.
